---
layout: log-entry
title: "1605"
date: 2018-06-09 16:05:00 -0700
category: log
time: "1605"
log: 0.0
cog: 109°T
sog: 3.2
lat: "48° 40.389' N"
lon: "123° 24.648' W"
---

Departed Westport Marina in Sidney B.C., Beowulf's home port until today. Weather dodgy. Wind variable and gusty.

Numerous squalls have passed through for the last few hours, bringing rain and gusts as we prepared the boat for her journey to Seattle. A trip that we anticipate will take five days over two weekends.

The first leg will get us to Anacortes where we will leave Beowulf for a week. Along the way we have to import her into the US through customs. The following weekend we will journey from Anacortes all the way to her future home port just south of Seattle. Thats the rough plan anyway. The weather, wind, tides, current, customs officials, Neptune, and Beowulf herself will ultimately determine where we wind up and when. 

## This wasn't supposed to happen

This whole thing is quite unexpected. 

This is just the first year of a five year plan. That plan — _the plan_ — leads to a larger boat, longer voyages and grander ambitions. But three weeks ago Beowulf suddenly appeared. 

It was the first morning back  after five days of sailing. My computer screen was swaying back and forth in the gentle rythm that doesn't actually exist now that I'm on land. I briefly considered popping a Dramamine. Trying to get my head back into work after days away, I particpated in that favorite ritual of arm chair sailors everywhere, perusing the internet boat ads. I clicked on the first of a handul of saved searches, this one for "folkboat". Typically this results in half a dozen boats for sale in places like Estonia, Italy, the UK and of course anyplace "Nordic". Oh and that one brand newly constructed traditional folkboat built by the students of the [Northwest School of Wooden Boat Building](https://www.nwswb.edu) in nearby Port Hadlock. That of course is a drop dead gorgeous boat, but not in the boat 1.0 price range, well on the way to boat 2.0 really. But not today. Today was atypical, because along with all the usual supects from all those usual places, there was Beowulf, a 1978 [Marieholm 26](http://sailboatdata.com/viewrecord.asp?class_id=385) for sale in Sidney B.C., reasonably priced and so pretty. 

## Boat 1.0

Earlier this spring I had started to grow restless with just using the club boats

 I had jotted down the criteria for boat 1.0.

* A reputation for sailing realy well.
* Something I cold potentially singlehand.
* Small enough to moor easily.
* An old school pocket cruiser. One that Bari and I could easily spend the weekend on. 
* As simple as possible, with minimal systems.
* Likely to last at least 3-5 years w/o completely falling apart.
* Seaworthy enough that I can sail her in heavy weather.
* Somewhre in the $10k range.
* Possibility of resale or donation after 3-5 years.
* Forward and aft torpedo tubes.

Eventually it became obvious I was decribing "Loon", the [International Folkboat](http://sailboatdata.com/viewrecord.asp?CLASS_ID=218) my good friend Peter once had. The one he sailed up to southeast Alaska and back, the [trip](http://www.kiyoandpeter.com/travel.html) he tried to get me to go on when we were both recently unemployed, the adventure I declined becuase I was too freaked out about finding my next gig, the one he had offered to sell me when he moved to New York for a while.

Note to self: Never doubt the Peter.

## Hello Beowulf

I read every detail of the ad at least half a dozen times. Scrutinized every picture. Then I texted the link to Peter.  "There she is! That looks like a nice one." was the reply. Never doubt the Peter.

Later that night I showed Bari. "Are you going to buy it?" she asked. "I'm going to go look at it" I replied. "Maybe this weekend". Now this is the moment. One of those moments where things either go really bad, or really great, and you just have to wait for it. "I'm going to ask Peter or Alan to go with me" I added", trying to fill the voied and end the wait. "I want to go!" she said. And then the moment was over. Stars had aligned. The rest of the week was flury of emails, text messages, plans, changes to plans, rationalizing all the reasons to buy her, dreaming about where we could go, trying to figure out where we could keep her, etc, etc.

And then there we were, in Sydney, meeting Beowulf. 

Topped off fuel. Engine on (223.8 hrs).